Hello and welcome.
A line from one of my
favorite stories as a child.
"We have so much time
and so little to see.
Wait, strike that,
reverse it." Willy Wonka from
Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.
Let me roll up my sleeves here
because we do have a lot to talk about
today and I'd like to get started.
Let me give you a brief
outline of what the story was.
Basically,
for the first time in a decade,
Willy Wonka, an eccentric,
reclusive chocolate maker,
opens his factory doors to the public.
Five lucky children who find a golden
ticket in their Wonka chocolate
bars receive a private tour of the
factory run by Willy Wonka and his
crew of loyal Oompa Loompa workers.
Now, I'm not going to tell you who
Willy Wonka is at our chocolate factory,
but consider me your Oompa Loompa
guide to the wild and wonderful
world of font management on Mac OS.
The factory doors are open.
Let's begin with a definition
of font management.
From a user's perspective,
it consists of installing, activating,
and deactivating fonts for use
in any number of applications,
including page layout programs,
web browsers,
and even the humble text editor.
From a developer standpoint,
it consists of a programming
interface for accessing and modifying
a central repository of font data.
Application developers use it to create
standard user interface elements,
like the Font Panel or the Font Menu.
They also use it to map a user
selection to a reference that can
be passed to the graphics system to
render text on the display or on other
graphics devices like the printer.
Now, the evolution of font management
on Mac OS can be divided,
actually, into two distinct periods.
The first period is marked by a
long series of incremental changes
to a design that has remained
fundamentally unchanged since the
introduction of the Macintosh in 1984.
The second period is
characterized by a transition,
a transition to Apple-type services.
It's a completely new font architecture
that was designed from the beginning
as an industrial-strength font
database management system.
Now, the key point of this session
today is that this transition
as of Mac OS X is complete.
What you'll learn are the things as
a developer that you'll need to do
to take advantage of the features
provided by this new font architecture,
and also what steps you'll need to do
to remove dependencies on the old model,
which has completely
gone away on Mac OS X.
Traditionally, the responsibility for
managing fonts resides with
the font folder and the finder,
which in turn depend on the resource
manager and the font manager to populate
the database and manage that information.
This design relies heavily
on the Resource Manager,
which was never intended or
designed to handle the data
retrieval and storage needs of
most professional font collections.
[Transcript missing]
The underlying implementation.
They also implement their own
auxiliary font management systems,
all of which has to be
synchronized with the central
database through system patches,
undocumented routines,
and internal data structures of the
Font Manager and Resource Manager.
Now,
the existing implementation for managing
the font files is a descendant of the
original font desk accessory mover,
which let users manipulate the contents
of a monolithic system suitcase file.
With the development of TrueType,
fonts were no longer just bitmap
fonts that could fit within
the system suitcase files.
They became larger, more complex,
and more numerous as
people began to adopt them.
When the functionality of the mover
was integrated with the finder,
the Font Manager and the
Resource Manager were modified to
create the illusion of a single system
suitcase file from a multitude of font
files located within the fonts folder.
Third-party developers, again,
as I mentioned before,
reverse engineered some
of this implementation and
figured out what was happening.
And a lot of it was actually
documented openly within Inside Mac.
They created system patches that didn't
necessarily work together very well.
They duplicated functionality
that was eventually developed
within the system itself and were
very fragile to changes within the
implementation of the operating system.
Some examples of these font management
utilities include Adobe Type Manager,
Font Reserve, Master Juggler,
and Suitcase.
These font management utilities really
came about because they were designed
to address some of the inherent
limitations in the system suitcase model.
First and foremost,
we have the limitation that all
fonts must be referenced through font
resources and the font suitcase file.
An example of how this
affects the regular user is
Adobe Type Manager and the requirement
that PostScript Type 1 fonts,
even though they stood alone as
separate outline files that ATM could
render and display on screen,
required a dummy font suitcase file
with at least one bitmap file in there
that was never really used to represent
each outline font that was available.
In addition to this,
only a fixed number of files can be
installed in the Fonts folder for use
by the Font Management System on Mac OS.
Most font management utilities
work around this limitation by
allowing users to activate and
deactivate selectively sets of fonts.
Since these font resources must
coexist in the resource chain as
part of the system suitcase file,
the Font Manager and
Resource Manager become involved
in resolving conflicts in the font
resource identifiers and names.
These changes,
these are actually physical
changes to the font resources,
need to be communicated to the
Font Manager through physical changes
within the font files themselves.
If you've ever double clicked on a
font suitcase file in the system folder
and then took a look at it later,
you might have noticed that the
modification date had actually changed,
even though you didn't do anything to it.
Even though there's a user interface
to actually move files in and out,
a lot of times what happened was
an ID conflict had actually been
resolved and your file has changed.
There are obviously concerns
about maintaining the validity of
your font data because of this,
so we want to move to a model
where font data is not touched.
And finally,
any changes within the fonts folder
are often not communicated to
applications that are currently running.
You would have to shut down
your applications and restart
them to see these changes.
Now beginning with Mac OS 8.5,
the release of Apple type
services for Unicode imaging.
That's a mouthful.
It's ATSUI for short,
or ATS for the underlined subsystem.
It introduced a text rendering engine
and font management model that was
designed to handle large collections
of fonts and to handle multiple font
formats and file packaging models.
The Font Manager and Quick Draw Text at
that time were rewritten to
integrate the ATS Glyphs cache,
a central cache of information
related to the fonts,
and the Font File and
Data Management system as an
adjunct to the system suitcase
model of the Resource Manager.
On Mac OS 9.0,
we introduced an extended set of
functions to the Font Manager that
allowed developers for the first
time to make use of some of the
lower level functionality of ATS.
By the way, one thing that I want to make
clear is that this extended
Font Manager functionality was
available both on Mac OS 9.0
straight and in CarbonLib,
the first release of CarbonLib.
On Mac OS X,
we've been busy porting ATS to
a client server implementation,
and we've been standardizing
the programming interface in
coordination with the other component
frameworks of the operating system.
Now the main goal of the design of
ATS was the replacement of the resource
manager with ATS as the principal
intermediary to the font database.
The design also allows us to hide
the implementation from third party
developers by providing a programming
interface for accessing and modifying
the standard font collection.
By transferring the responsibility
for managing the font files,
parsing the font formats,
and resolving name and
identifier conflicts,
We've allowed these modifications to
be handled dynamically through internal
data structures of ATS and Font Manager,
rather than through exposed data
structures through the Resource Manager.
This information is made available
to third-party developers
through the Font Access and
Data Management programming interface of
the new Extended Font Manager and ATS.
Another aspect of this design is the
font format independence and also for
handling different storage models.
What we've done is we've consolidated
the way fonts get packaged.
Essentially,
font data may be stored in the standard,
you might be familiar with this,
SFNT is the tag that we used in
the Resource Manager in the past.
A standard SFNT directory and data table
model that was developed for TrueType and
also has been adopted for the OpenType
packaging model from Adobe and Microsoft.
One last thing is that performance has
been improved through the use of data
structures and heuristics that are
optimized for font management within ATS.
And this works on multiple
platforms and operating systems.
We have support on
Mac OS 9 and on Mac OS X.
In terms of implementing ATS itself,
at the core of the architecture
lies the open font architecture,
which provides a programming interface
and a protocol for communicating
with these modular font scalers.
Essentially,
the font scalers are responsible
for parsing and interpreting
the font data that's specific
to a particular font technology,
like TrueType or PostScript.
The font scalers participate in measuring
and rendering text and translating the
font data into a canonical format that
can be used on different graphic systems.
The ATS Glyphs cache is shared by
all clients of ATS and is designed
for high throughput of the font data,
especially in support of large glyph
repertoires that are used in Asian fonts.
The Font Database uses also references
to font files that may be closed as
needed in order to conserve valuable
system resources and also just to
allow you to handle these fonts without
keeping them open like they were in
the past in the Resource Manager.
There is also, thanks to this,
no predefined limit to the
number of font files that may
be open or active and referenced
through ATS at any single time.
And finally, on Mac OS X,
the client server implementation
of ATS allows us to further
reduce the load on the system by
sharing more of the common data
structures and common components.
Now, as you can see in this diagram,
there's no sign of the resource manager
in this particular implementation.
This probably represents what
you see on Mac OS X as of DP4.
We have applications and
utilities linking directly
to an ATS client library,
which then communicates
to the ATS server,
which in turn handles the low-level
details of the font formats and
packaging models on various file
systems or even across the network.
Applications and utilities
may also link to a particular
graphic system like Quick Draw,
which is represented through
the Font Manager API,
or Quartz to access their font data
in a style that's closer to what
is used on that graphic system.
Underneath all of this, though, however,
these graphic systems also are
clients of the ATS server and
parts of the ATS client library
to make use of font data.
This abstraction layer allows us to
change formats or support formats,
actually, as needed as things come along.
Now, a fundamental assumption in ATS is
that all font data can be logically
contained within one of these
SFNT directory and data table structures.
This happens to be,
as I mentioned before,
the native storage model for
TrueType and OpenType fonts.
As such,
each font has a format identifier,
a directory describing the data
tables that are present in the font,
and a collection of data tables.
The formats supported include
TrueType and PostScript.
And within PostScript itself,
there are a multitude of variants.
We also support classic
PostScript outline fonts,
the CFF format fonts,
which are used in OpenType,
CID keyed 2 byte font formats,
or the font format for CID keyed fonts,
and other legacy formats,
including the OCF font format.
That one we're actually
working on right now,
so it's not available in DP4,
and we're working on
OpenType support also.
One thing that we've had as a
requirement was support for font file
formats from other operating systems.
An example of this is the
Microsoft TrueType TTC or
TTF data fork files.
This becomes much simpler with the
font management model provided by ATS.
The storage models that we
intend to support include,
although these aren't
completely guaranteed,
of course, TrueType and PostScript font
suitcases and font resources.
OpenType OTF and TrueType
TTC and TTF files are
something we are working on.
And with the emphasis on PDF data
structures and file formats within
the new Quartz graphics system,
we also are working really hard
with the Core graphics team to get
PDF embedded font data working properly.
So that means a PDF with embedded
data should work transparently
on your Mac OS X system.
The programming interface, the ATS,
lets application and system developers
integrate many of the enhancements
that have evolved over time.
A lot of these features were
provided through the font management
utilities I described earlier,
and also have been proposed or
have been integrated in part in
the Finder and Fonts Folder model.
Now some of these features
are actually not available at
present time in the Finder.
They include the ability to maintain
fonts in locations outside of
a single directory associated
directly with the operating system,
the fonts folder in the classic world.
Users also like to create and
manage sets of fonts customized
for different applications.
This is something that you often do
see with font management utilities.
They also want to be able to open
and close fonts while working in the
middle of an application and have
those fonts immediately available.
They don't want to have to
shut down their applications.
And finally,
some utilities also provide the
ability to share fonts over a network,
which we are actually providing
transparently on Mac OS X through
these APIs and the ATS architecture.
One last thing that we're working
on is we're coordinating an effort
with the high-level toolbox team and
the app kit team to standardize on
a user interface for managing fonts.
This might integrate some of the features
within the font panel that you've
seen before and the traditional fonts
menu that you're all familiar with.
At this point,
I'd like to introduce my fellow
comrade in arms from the type team,
Julio Gonzalez,
who will demo for you some of the
features that ATS makes possible,
and also some of the features that
are actually already implemented
in DP4 or are planned for the
retail release of Mac OS X.
Good evening.
I wanted to start by talking and
showing you the different locations
for the font directories in OS X.
The first location the
ATS system knows about is the
system library fonts location.
Here we have the fonts that
are required for the basic
operation of the operating system,
plus some fonts that
traditionally were shipped with.
Next directory that the ATS system knows
about is the local fonts directory.
This location is the ideal spot for
font collections to get installed into,
not so with the system directory
which is exclusive for Apple's use.
The next directory it knows
about is the Network directory.
Unfortunately, I'm not on the network,
I can show it to you,
but this is the ideal spot for, say,
a company-wide font that is
used in internal documents.
The last directory that it knows
about is the User Fonts directory.
Basically,
these fonts are only available to
the user that is currently logged in.
But the beauty of this directory
is that if the home directory
resides over the network,
as you log in on a different machine,
the fonts go along with you.
Now, let me show you some of the new
features that we have on OS X.
This is the current version of
Simple Text that is shipping with
the CD that you all received.
It's basically a carbonized
version of Simple Text.
It doesn't do much as
far as using the new API.
So, if we look at the Fonts menu,
this font menu is built
using a pen rest menu.
This is what you're all familiar with.
It's just the assorted list of fonts that
are currently installed in the system.
Now, I've taken the same version
of Simple Text and modified it
to use some new APIs that were
introduced in CarbonLib 1.0 that
allow you to create a new menu.
One of the advantages is that
you can have a hierarchical menu.
It's more compact,
it provides more information,
so here you see the sub-menus which
show you the weights and stresses
that accompany this font family.
[Transcript missing]
Another feature of this menu
that is not readily seen is
automatic font activation.
What do I mean by that?
Typically on Mac OS 9, say,
if you wanted to install a font,
you would install it
into the Fonts folder.
Any running application would
have to quit and restart for
you to be able to see or use it.
Now, if I go back here to my disk,
Pick up a font,
drop it into my user's font directory,
and make sure that it got copied there.
That's the user's font directory.
Go back to the modified
version of Simple Text.
Hello?
Oh, not the font that I wanted to use,
but let's pick up a nicer one here.
Yeah, sorry about that.
I picked up the one below,
or the one above.
So if we head back,
let me unclutter some of the mess here.
There it is.
So, we didn't have to quit the
application in order to see the font,
and not only that, of course,
we can hopefully use it.
So that's an improvement
over what we've had in OS 9.
Another thing that you can do with
this activation is what Robin talked
about is you can activate now fonts
anywhere outside of the scope of
what the system knows to look at.
So that gives us a few advantages.
For example, applications that want to
ship with their own fonts.
Typically,
applications have had to install fonts
in the fonts folder or have shipped
with the font suitcases inside of
the resource fork of the application.
That second option, of course,
is not doable under OS X because we've
divorced from the resource manager
altogether and we no longer look
at the resource manager for fonts.
You can still install the fonts
into any of the known locations,
the user, local, or network directories.
Which, by the way,
you can get at using Find Folder the same
way that you would under classic Mac OS,
just by calling Find Folder with
some new constants that are provided.
A better way would be to ship the
fonts that the application wishes
to use along with the application.
So that's what I've done with
this version of Simple Text.
If I go back to this and show
the version of simple text,
I have a font folder that
lives right along it.
It's got a chest font here
that I'm going to demonstrate.
The directory is just at the same level
as the application as it launches.
It looks for this font's directory in the
same spot as it is and activates a font.
So if I go back here to the
modified version of Simple Text,
Here's that font that has been activated,
so I can go ahead and use it.
So that is a cleaner way of doing it,
but let me just talk about
this a little bit more.
This is not the most
clean way of doing it.
Here the finder is showing us
the simple text application as an
icon that we can double click on.
In reality, this is a package,
a directory structure.
Inside of this structure
is a contents directory,
for example.
And this would be the ideal spot
to put your fonts directory.
And that way,
as you copy the finder around,
move it around to another location,
your fonts would be copied alongside it.
So now, how about activating
other fonts on the system?
I have a tool here that
allows us to do just that.
Let me bring it up.
It just shows the glyphs that
the current font needs or has.
Let me also bring up the font panel.
This is the standard UI on the
Mac OS X for the font panel.
And these are the fonts that are
available under it at the moment.
I have a menu item here that
will allow me to activate any
directory that I have on this.
I have here a set of demo fonts.
Please watch closely the
font panel underneath it as
I activate that directory.
Here we go.
We have now a bunch of
fonts that we can now use.
This was a font that was not there.
It updates in the background.
Apple Garamond was also not there.
So you can imagine, you know, now we can,
you can have a user have a set
of directories and organize
their fonts in whatever way
they wish to use them and you,
as a developer,
provide a UI that lets them
pick any of these folders to
activate or deactivate on the fly.
For the purposes of the demo,
when we use the activation
routine that Robin is going to
talk to you about in a minute,
you have two options.
You can activate the font locally so
that only this application sees it,
or globally.
We chose to activate them globally.
So as we quit,
This demo application and go back
to our simple text application.
We should be able to see them
and here they are for us to see.
The last thing I want to show you is
some of the formats and packaging that
Robin talked about that we now support.
Some of these are, of course,
work in progress.
So let me just show you some of the
The fonts that were in that activate
demo fonts that I just activated.
This font right here are
Windows TrueType fonts.
In fact, I downloaded this from
the Microsoft website.
And it's standard
TrueType Data Fork font.
So no resources whatsoever in here,
SFNTs, you name it.
This font here is an open type font,
a Japanese open type font,
so I'll go ahead and make use of them.
Oh, before I forget, notice also,
if I go back to my
version of Simple Text,
This font right here are,
both of them are PostScript fonts.
There is no ATM installed in this system.
This is part of the Mac OS system now,
Mac OS X system.
So let me go back and show
you some of these fonts.
This is the TrueType font from Microsoft.
So it does operate.
Hopefully you can see it.
And now I can go ahead and try
that Japanese OpenType font.
Excuse my Japanese.
Hopefully it will come out right.
Here we go.
With that, I'll hand it back to Robin and
she'll talk some more about all
of these wonderful APIs that I've
been using here for the demo.
Thank you.
Thanks, Julio.
So let me reiterate at this point.
The key point of this
session is that on Mac OS X,
we've completed the transition
to the ATS font architecture.
As Julio mentioned,
the resource manager is not
really in the picture anymore.
Now ATS organizes the font data
in a two-tier hierarchy consisting
of font families and fonts.
A font essentially represents a
component of a font family that is
differentiated by stylistic variation or
stress like italic or weight like bold.
The font family is a reference
to a collection of fonts with
the same design characteristics.
This is kind of a definition that
most of you are probably familiar
with in terms of computing and
displaying text on a computer.
This font family reference,
it's compatible with the routines of the
Font Manager in Quickdraw Text and may
be used wherever a standard Quickdraw
font identifier from the older days,
including the text font function
that you're familiar with in
Quickdraw and the TX font field
within the Quickdraw graphics port.
However,
it cannot be used to access information
from a FOND or font resource handle
through the resource manager routines.
In addition,
a font family reference does not
imply a particular script system,
nor can it be mapped through
some arithmetic magic to a
particular character encoding,
as was true in the past.
Each component font associated with
the font family is identified by an
opaque reference to a single object
registered with the font database.
This font reference consists of the
individual outline and bitmap fonts that
form in combination the font family.
Within the ATS programming interface,
there are also compatibility
routines that let you map one
of these newer references,
or at least the font reference,
to an old style font family ID and a
traditional quick draw style bit set.
Many of the features that I'll
be describing in this section
are implemented already in the
extended programming interface
of the Font Manager that was
introduced with Mac OS 9.0 and
the first release of CarbonLib.
On Mac OS X,
particularly if you're going to be
working within an environment that's
based on the Quartz graphics system,
like the App Kit,
you have the option of linking
directly to the new ATS framework.
This is where the actual implementation
of ATS resides on Mac OS X.
Now there are four basic tasks that the
programming interface needs to provide.
And this is available, again,
on CarbonLib and Mac OS 9
within the Font Manager and on
Mac OS X through the ATS framework.
They consist of the ability to enumerate
or search for font families and fonts.
Accessing information and data contained
within the font families and fonts.
And a set of database related routines,
the main one being the ability
to activate and deactivate fonts.
And finally, we have an implementation
of a basic font menu,
as Julio showed you earlier,
that replaces the Append
Res Menu implementation that was
very resource manager centric.
So as for enumeration, these routines,
again, allow you to iterate and search
for font families and fonts using
a model that's thread safe and
compatible with the preemptive
multitasking environment of Mac OS X.
Four routines are usually provided.
There's one to create a font or font
family iterator object that maintains the
state necessary for high quality data.
There's a function to
iterate to the next item,
and there's one to reset the
state of the iterator object,
and one to dispose of the
iterator once you're done.
One additional feature that we provide on
the ATS framework is a utility function
that's similar to what you see in the
Core Foundation Collections Library.
Essentially,
it's the ATS font apply function.
It wraps everything up so you don't
have to deal with iterators directly,
and you can simply pass in a callback
routine that's applied or called
for each item that's iterated.
Now, here's how you create an iterator
to step through all of the fonts
accessible to your application.
It's essentially wrapped with
a create and dispose function.
Within it, there's an inner loop that
iterates through all of the fonts.
It returns the font reference that
you can use with any of the accessor
functions within the library.
Now as for the access routines,
what you'll want to avoid doing is
using the Resource Manager routines
to access the data stored in the
traditional font suitcase files.
These resources include the fonts,
the F-O-N-T's, the fonts, NFN-T's,
SFN-T's, and LWFN's,
a whole alphabet soup of resources.
The resource-based semantics of
the old Font Manager will still be
available because we didn't blow away
the old Resource Manager routines.
And you'll be able to return some values,
but it will not be set up the way you're
used to with the system resource chain
and all the fonts available globally.
Instead,
what you want to do is use the iterator
and the apply functions and also use
the ATS accessor functions that are
also available in a slightly different
form within the extended font manager.
In terms of the interaction between the
Font Manager and the graphics system,
one thing you should avoid doing
is depending on FM swap font and
the traditional resource-based
Font Manager data structures to
access information such as metrics
and other metadata about the fonts.
An example of this on Mac OS X is
within the FM output structure.
There is a font handle field that
currently is going to be set to
nil in most cases since a lot of
this font data is not going to
reside within a resource handle.
There are other data structures that
you're probably familiar with that
also have similar resource handle
pointers or handles to resources
that are probably going to be set
to nil or will definitely be set
to nil in almost all of these cases.
The way you get around this, of course,
is to use the accessor function
that we provide through ATS and
through the extended Font Manager.
They are set up so that you'll be
able to access information that
you would normally have gone to
a font directly or to the font
handle to retrieve this information.
And we're currently working with
the various graphics systems and the
teams for the Quartz and Quick Trial
graphics systems to integrate these
font family and font references
into the system as accessors.
So you won't have to do any sort
of conversion back and forth.
You can just use these natively
within those components.
I'll say this one more time:
Don't use the Resource Manager.
For activation and deactivation,
people in the past have patched
the Resource Manager and
Font Manager to get the work done.
They have intimate knowledge about
the way the resource chain is
set up and how fonts are inserted
and removed from that chain.
That will no longer work.
As of CarbonLib 1.0 and
Mac OS 9.0 and on Mac OS X,
we provide functions that make
this so much easier for you.
You should be using these.
We have a whole suite of these.
There's not just basic
activation and deactivation,
but also ways to pass in the information,
whether it's a file or within memory.
One additional thing that I like
to explain is we also provide
a mechanism for notification.
It's very simple in this first release,
but essentially it consists
of a generation seed value.
It's a global value that's stored
in the ATS server that gets updated
whenever anything happens to change
the state of the font database.
This means any operation that can add,
delete, or even modify the fonts or font
families that are stored in the
database will trigger a change
or an update to the seed value.
And also,
any font family or font that happens
to be touched within a particular
transaction will be tagged with the
current value of the generation seed.
So there are accessor functions that
allow you to retrieve this information
and compare it against a cached value
that you store within your application
to see what happens to the database.
This provides the core
functionality for the way the
updated font menu has been working.
So, on Mac OS X,
as Julio described earlier,
you cannot embed a font in the
resource fork of your application
and assume that it's automatically
registered with the Font Manager when
the application is launched.
Instead, what you want to do is you want
to locate some predefined place.
If you've actually carbonized your
application already and have one of
those packages that Julio showed to you,
one of those .app directories,
then you can use the CFFundle
routines that are available in
Core Foundation to actually locate
one of the particular subfolders
where you can place your fonts that's
carried around with the application
whenever a user copies it and pass
that particular piece of information,
the location,
as a file spec or a file ref or even
a path name to the ATS routines to
activate the fonts contained within it.
From that, with the ATS framework,
you'll be able to use an opaque container
reference to find the fonts that are
available or that were registered with
the database from within that container
or that file or memory location even.
One thing I should note that
Julio mentioned earlier,
he actually stole some of my thunder,
was that we have the ability
when activating a particular
container to determine the context,
whether it's local to the application
or global and system-wide.
And so that's going to be
one of the parameters that
you'll be able to pass in.
The default behavior, of course,
is to make it local to the application
and safe so that when an application
is normally shut down or crashes even,
those fonts will be
removed from the system.
The final task that the programming
interface provides or enables
you to do is a basic font menu.
I think I'll say this one more time.
Don't use the resource manager
based routines to do this.
Instead,
what you'll use are a standard set of
functions that were distributed as of
CarbonLib 1.0 in the Menu Manager to
create this basic font menu.
And that's actually what
Julio was using within his
eSimpleText that he was demoing.
So they provide just a few
functions that allow you to create
and dispose of a standard menu,
to update it automatically based
on this generation seed and the
current state of the font database.
And one key item:
Since the implementation
is radically different,
or it is different anyway from
the old Append/ResMenu menu,
We provided a function that allows you
to map a user selection to one of these
new font family or font references.
So here's, real quick,
how you'd actually create
one of the basic font menus.
It's almost identical to
the old Append Res menu,
except for the fact that
if you look down below,
there's a hierarchical font menu option.
So if you pass that in,
you'll actually get one of the
fancy new hierarchical menus.
It's not spectacular,
but it gets the job done.
If you wanted to,
you can actually implement your own
version of a font menu using the
standard accessor and iterator functions.
Now this is what's more interesting.
So given one of these hierarchical menus,
which is different from the old
append res menu style where you
can simply take the item text
and use the Quick Draw routine,
get FNUM, to map it back to an ID that
you could pass through the
Quick Draw graphic system.
Instead, we provide you this function,
Get Font Family from Menu Selection,
that takes the menu handle and the item
that was selected and maps it back to a
reference and a standard Quick Draw style
that then you can use with Quick Draw.
So one of the benefits of this
is that in the future we could
change the implementation so that
the menu items are no longer a
standard Quick Draw font name.
We could actually make it so
that they're customizable.
Or we can change the font name.
Make it possible to have both a
PostScript and a TrueType version of
Helvetica present in the same font
menu and allow users to distinguish
between them and use them as they want.
So to wrap this up,
I'll say this one more time.
Don't use the Resource Manager to
do your font management.
Begin developing to the new extended
Font Manager programming interface
that's available with Carbon.
Also, as of DP4,
you'll be able to preview the
programming interface that we have
in mind for the ATS framework.
Now, just a caveat.
On DP4, you won't be able to link
against these functions and
you won't be able to use them.
Just take a look at the header file.
It's called ATS font.h and it's included
within the ATS framework itself.
If you know the structure of
the new framework hierarchy,
basically each of them is a modular
package that represents a component
in the system with headers that
are included within that package.
So again, preview those interfaces
and see what's up,
what additional features we'll
be providing and exposing
through the ATS architecture.
Here are a couple other sessions
that you might be interested in.
The text session already happened
earlier this morning and a lot
of you might have already gone.
But hopefully, I'm not sure about this,
that they'll have some sort
of streaming capability or
something to review the lecture.
There's also the Quartz session on
Friday that you'll be interested in.
This goes more into the graphic
side of things and it's specific to,
of course, the Quartz system.
And finally, on Friday also,
there's the traditional international
and text feedback forum that I'll
probably be at and so will my colleagues.
And you can talk about all kinds of
other related topics in the text field.
On the web,
if you don't want to get up and
talk in a meeting here at WWDC,
you can actually go and take a look
at the Texton International website
for our DTS technical documentation.
And I'll give a plug to our fellow
group in the Apple Fonts group,
which actually creates the fonts that
we ship on the system and the tools and
utilities that are used to develop them.
And a final quote from Willy Wonka:
"Invention is 93% perspiration,
6% electricity, 4% evaporation,
and 2% butterscotch ripple."
Think of it this way:
We've already gone through
all the perspiration for you,
so one additional set of changes to
your application and your utilities
will give you that extra magic that
you'll see from our chocolate factory.
Thank you very much.